# Watchit

A sensible wrapper around [fs.watch](http://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/fs.html#fs.watch).

Written in CoffeeScript by the author of *[CoffeeScript: Accelerated JavaScript Development](http://pragprog.com/book/tbcoffee/coffeescript)*.

## Usage

Install with [npm](http://npmjs.org/). Then:

    watchit = require('watchit');
    watchit('target', options, callback);

where `target` is the path to a file or directory, `options` is a hash (see
below) and `callback` is a function of the form

    callback = function(event) { ... }

Both `options` and `callback` are optional.

`watchit` also returns an `EventEmitter` that emits the same events received
by `callback` (more on that below). You can also call `close()` on the emitter
to "unwatch" the target.

## Options

`watchit` is designed to work as a drop-in replacement for `fs.watch` by
default, but in most cases you'll want to modify one or more of these options:

* `retain` (default: **false**) means that if something is later created at
the same location as the target, the new entity will be watched.
* `debounce` (default: **false**) means that changes that occur within 1
second of each other will be treated as a single change. This also allows
"echo" events that occur under OS X to be ignored.
* `include` (default: **false**) means that if the target is a directory,
files contained in that directory will be treated like targets. (Otherwise,
directory events will be forwarded directly from `fs.watch`.)
* `recurse` (default: **false**) means that if the target is a directory, all
of its subdirectories will also be counted as targets.
* `persistent` is identical to `fs.watch`'s `persistent` option. If
disabled, the process may exit while files are still being watched.

## The emitter

The emitter returned by `watchit` emits events in two ways:

1. **fs.watch-style**: Bind a callback that takes the event name, filename,
and possibly other args with `emitter.on('all', callback)`. (**Note**: With
`fs.watch`, this would be `emitter.on 'change'`. Unfortunately, `'change'` is
also one of the two event names that `fs.watch` can return; to avoid
confusion, Watchit uses the `'all'` convention from
[Backbone.js](http://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/#Events).)
1. **By event**: Bind a callback that takes the filename, and possibly other
args, to a specific event: `'change'`, `'create'` or `'unlink'`. For example,
`emitter.on('change', callback)`.

## Major differences vs. `fs.watch`

With Watchit:

1. Duplicate changes (those that do not modify `mtime`) are ignored; this
works around a notable `fs.watch` bug under OS X.
1. After a file is renamed, it will no longer emit events. That is, Watchit
does not "follow" moved files the way `fs.watch` does. (Why? Because this
behavior is inconsistent across OSes, and there's currently no way to
determine the new location of the file.)
1. Emitted events differ (see below)

## Events

* `'success'`/`'failure'`: When a target is first watched, a `'success'` event will be emitted if it already exists, and `failure` if it does not exist.
(`'failure'` is not emitted if the `retain` option is set.)
* `'change'`: Same as `fs.watch`'s `'change'`.
* `'create'`: Emitted when the target is created (or, in `include` mode, when
a child of the target directory is created).
* `'unlink'`: Emitted when the target no longer exists at its current location
(or, in `include` mode, when a child of the target directory no long exists).

Note that `create` and `unlink` are finer-grained versions of `fs.watch`'s
`rename`.

## A word of warning

The Node team is, as of version 0.6.2, still working the kinks out of
`fs.watch`. Watchit should be considered a good alternative to dealing with
`fs.watch` yourself, but you may nonetheless encounter some quirks--and even
fatal errors. Check the issue tracker:

https://github.com/joyent/node/issues/search?q=fs.watch&state=open

In addition, watchit itself is a new project, and the test suites are
incomplete. If you run into any problems that you can replicate in a small
test case, please don't hesitate to report them.

## License

http://trevorburnham.mit-license.org